Ruby Friedman
APCS
HW36 -- All Quacked Up
2021-11-18
time spent: 0.5 hrs

There are 3 types of errors in java:
 * Compile-time errors- which occur during compiling and are usually 
   due to syntaxing issues.
 * Run-time errors- which occur during running of the program and
   are usually due to stack overflow or array indexing.
 * Logic erros- which compliles and runs just fine, and doesn't 
   return any error messages, but the code doesn't do what you intended
   it to do.

Compile-time errors:
When trying to fix compile-time errors, focus on the first error
message, fix it and re-compile. It's quite common that the rest of
the error messages cascaded down from that first error. 
Check for syntax errors, a missing semicolon or quotation mark.
Comment out some of the code and re compile, this can help you locate
exactly where the error is occuring.
Error messages from compile-time errors tell you that something is
wrong, byt their given solutions are unreliable.

Run-time errors:
The best way to figure out what caused the run-time error is to add
print statements.
Print out where loops enter and exit, variable values, boolean statements,
etc to make sure the values are correct before they are returned.
Some examples of run-time errors include:
ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException - the index given isn't in the array or is negitive
StackOverflow - usually caused by infinate loops that lack an end or base case.
FileNotFound - Java couln't find the file, pretty self explainitory.
ArithmaticException - an issue with the arithmatic, like a divide by 0 error.

Logic errors:
In these erros, the the compiler and interpreter won't tell you what's wrong,
so you need to make a flow chart and trace the exacution to see where the
error is.

Some extra tips:
Make your code easy to read and follow, this will make the debugging process
much easier.
Use temporary variables rather then wordy expressions to make the code more
easy to follow.
Print out values!
If you need a break, take a break, come back with a fresh mind.
Find a friend for some healthy peer review.
Talk to your ducky, with their help eventually you'll find the bug!

